Learning can be improved

There is no doubt that the way we learn new skills or improve existing abilities can be improved. Seriously, everytime I come to the end of a learning quest and finally get it, I think: "Well if I only knew about this earlier! I could have saved weeks!"

Methods of learning need to change as much as the change in what actually need to be learned. We live in accelerating times. Our world requires more and more understanding as time goes. Luckily human progress manages to be exponential and not linear. But to keep up with the acceleration, new techniques should be developed, by more people.

Maybe it doesn't have to do with availability of information and data. A learning mission is accomplished when one successfuly navigates through the noise of misinformation. The biggest impediment to knowing is too many people wanting to let you know. How can that be avoided? Ironically, with more information. Yes. If more people get more access to more sources of information and can equally contribute, less noise there will be.

That's why I love Reddit and hate Youtube. The former lets natural selection of good information against the bad one with easy upvotes and downvotes, while the latter makes it harder to burry unimportant, non-factual stupidity. 

A subject to rethink through definitely, but there is something there to work on.
============
I'm not an expert, but as most of us are not neither, I'd say that when next time you feel stuck, try this:

Give yourself 5 seconds toanswer the following: "What would feel best to do right now?"

Trusting the gut has made us survive for thousands of years as humans. I would rely on that for knowing what feels right.

But in general, the 'return to basics' approach would be best.

Think of what might our cavemen ancestors do to survive their situations, that honestly might have been much more critical than ours today. Following your instinct is what might get you out of it, at least in the short term.
=======
Last time I was really suprised that I could steal the show at a wedding party, by being a lot less 'impressive' than what I was supposed to be.

I used to think that I needed some sort of gear to achieve a certain "respect" and being regarded as someone "on track to success" by the people I was meeting at that wedding party.

But one thing happened, just few days before: I just decided that I didn't really care about what those people will think of me. I won't give a flute about what 'grade' they give me on my achievements and wouldn't mind acting anyway I wanted during that wedding.

So I followed that brillant inspiration I had, and found that as one of the HEALTHIEST experience I ever had in a family gathering. I was serene, smiling all the way to my ears and most of all, warm and open to the people I met. 

It's funny when I think that most would bring forward their social status to such events while I was just being that regular guy, that hasn't achieved much, and has everything to learn. Suprisingly, (and the icing on the cake was that) I was somewhat looked up to.

In a way I felt that several were yearning that sense of liberation and relief that I was experiencing. The last think I was thinking about was to impress those people. Unexpectedly many have showed their warmness, interest if not admiration.

It was a big surprise that taught me that the first rule of being accepted by others is to not care about being accepted by others. The quote that I kept telling myself months before fullfilled its intelligent prophecy:

"Those who matter don't mind, and those who mind don't matter." -Bernard Baruch
====
Why is so hard to keep up?

Blogging has been insightful everytime I tried it. But my challenge with it was to keep the momentum going.

I really don't see why I can't continue doing something that I like so much. I haven't regretted once my daily introspection this week. An sometimes, I find out about wonderful ideas that I picked from a part of my brain that I have forgotten about.

I'm really trying to understand. Why do we stop doing that we like doing. Is it because we don't like it anymore, or the reason is more complex than that.

Now it reminds me. I need to search for that paper that speaks about our brain and the different hormines that dictate our actions. I remember that it has todo with dopanines and stuff like that.

I believe that if blogging remains answering these 7 questions suggested by Winnie, every week, a lot can e gained. I heard that self-awareness is a solid trigger for decisions, and therefore actions.

Wonderful experience. My next challenge is to blog tomorrow morning while eating breakfast.

Sing like nobody's listening! And blog like nobody's reading!

==============
Day 8

The detective is back.

Why am I doing this challenge again.

As easy asa it may seem. Getting into the habit of doing things that make us good remain a great difficulty.

We all know that human lifes are their the habits they have found in themselves, inherited from an environment or developped through conscious decisions. The first is there without a choice, the second is hard to question, and the third is immensely hard do.

But why is it hard for me to do things that I know will make me feek good, probably in the long term more than the short term.

I think that's the reason. We are shortsighted and prefer immediate results rather than looking for benefits that are far in time. But how to tackle that.

What if we change our concept of time. Yes the benefits of daily meditation enhances peace of mind, warmnesswith others, being grateful, being close to our purpose and finding about what living is really about. 

I am doing challenge as a new form of daily meditation. It definitely inhances self-awareness and mostly a research withing. As I said, kids wo=anted to be policemen, doctors or postman, but I wanted to be a detective.